---
title: "IGEL conference"
image: "images/events-img/monopoli_porto.jpg"
description: IGEL 2023 conference
location: "Monopoli, Italy""
year: '2023'
month: "28-30 September"
duration: ''
fee: TBA
type: upcoming
readmore: yes
weight: 1
---

## About Event
The 19th IGEL conference will be held in Monopoli, Italy, on 28-30 September 2023. The call for papers is available below. Please address any questions to the main organizer, Federico Pianzola: f[dot]pianzola[at]rug[dot]nl

Conference website: https://igelsociety.org/events/igel2023

### Event Speakers

{{< row >}}

{{< speaker img="images/members/member-1.jpg" >}}
##### TBA

{{</ speaker >}}

{{< speaker img="images/members/member-1.jpg" >}}
##### TBA

{{</ speaker >}}

{{</ row >}}

## Call for Papers

The International Society for the Empirical Study of Literature (IGEL) invites submissions to the 2023 conference across all areas of the empirical study of literature and media, including but not limited to, cognitive processing of literature, literature/media and culture, aesthetics, neuroscience and literature, literary reception, reading and emotion, historical study of literature, and corpus analysis of literature.

This year’s conference is co-located with [ENN 2023](https://enn7.netlify.app), the conference of the European Narratology Network, and the common theme is *Rhythm, Speed, Path: Spatiotemporal Experiences in Narrative, Poetry, and Drama*. Submissions related to this topic will be given priority but contributions on other topics are also welcome. **The deadline for submission is 24 February 2023**.  

The conference will be conducted in a **hybrid format**. All spoken presentations will be pre-recorded videos of approximately 20 minutes to be delivered about 2 weeks before the conference. During the conference sessions, presenters will give a 5 minutes summary of their work and 15 minutes will be dedicated to Q&A. The platform used for the conference is called [Concordance](https://igelsociety.org/concordance/). Poster presentations will be available on Concordance but presenters can choose to display them at the conference venue as well.

The review committee requires a summary of the presentation. The summary should be 600-800 words and contain a short introduction, a description of the methods as appropriate, and a brief conclusion. We also welcome theoretical papers (as long as they are focused on the field of empirical literary studies) and works in progress. For works in progress, we particularly recommend the poster format.

Acceptance decisions will be communicated to the authors by 15 April 2023. 

### Submission Requirements

Send submissions via the [submission form](https://forms.gle/UUQShkRrMadk29uYA), including the following information:

- Name of first author (First, Last and Title) and affiliation
- Email of corresponding author 
- List co-authors (names and affiliations) 
- Title of presentation
- Three to five relevant keywords 
- Short description (100 words max) 
- Long abstract (800 words max, references excluded) 

Please indicate the format (poster, paper, symposium paper) by ticking the appropriate box.

### Important dates

Symposium proposals and abstracts submission deadline: 24 February 2023

Acceptances will be sent out on: 15 April 2023

Conference begins: 28 September 2023

Conference ends: 30 September 2023

### More Information

**Symposia**

Format: A symposium includes a minimum of three and a maximum of four speakers. To submit for a symposium, use the following guidelines:

- Name of Contact author (First, Last and Title)  
- Email of the contact person  
- List all presenters
- Title of Symposium
- Three to five relevant keywords 
- Short Description of Symposium (100 words max) 
- A List of Speakers (Including Affiliations) 
- Titles and summaries (200-300 words, references excluded) of each speaker’s contribution

Please indicate the format as symposium paper by ticking the appropriate box. 

Just like the spoken presentation, all symposia presentations will be pre-recorded with synchronous Q&A sessions during the conference.

Chair/discussant may also serve as speaker, i.e. fill one of the maximum of four slots in a symposium. Accepted symposium proposals will then have to be submitted following the same guidelines as regular proposals by using the online registration described above. 

### Outstanding Student Paper Award

IGEL will give an Outstanding Student Paper Award. In order to be considered for this award, the first author must be a graduate student, and the student’s supervisor must send a recommendation to igel2023conference[at]gmail.com describing the student’s contribution to the research project. First authors should indicate the eligibility of their submission using the provided checkbox during the submission process. 

### Acceptance Policies

- Proposal needs to be relevant to our society’s mandate and members 
- Proposal needs to be of high quality (therefore paper proposals need to be anonymized, so authors cannot be accepted or rejected on name alone) 
- Proposal can be empirical (naturalistic, experimental or computational) or theoretical (but pertaining to the field of empirical literary studies) in nature 
- We will not accept more than one proposal from the same author (the only exception being authors who can clearly show that they are working in two different research areas) → this policy is to prevent senior researchers from dominating the conference 

We are an inclusive society, which means early career researchers or researchers from economically-disadvantaged countries will not be discriminated against:

- The reviewing process is blind
- Comments may be made by reviewers to authors about the need to improve English use, but a bad command of the English language is not a reason to reject a proposal
- Registration fees are lowered
- We provide bursaries of maximum 400 euro each for Master and PhD students with no travel funds. There is a limited number of bursaries available.

## Training School

The conference will be followed by an online Training School, to be held during the first week of October 2023. The theme of the Training School will be announced in the Spring of 2023.


## Organisation

The 2023 IGEL conference is organized by the University of Groningen, Netherlands, in cooperation with [*Enthymema, International Journal of Literary Criticism, Literary Theory, and Philosophy of Literature*](https://riviste.unimi.it/index.php/enthymema/about), and the University of Eastern Piedmont, Italy.

Conference convenor: Federico Pianzola (University of Groningen, Netherlands)

## Contact

Inquiries concerning the conference can be sent to igel2023conference[at]gmail.com


## Submission form

[Click here](https://forms.gle/J535yvYbE4cwufJN8) to go to the submission form
